Original: [https://studieordninger.aau.dk/2024/47/5001 ](https://studieordninger.aau.dk/2024/47/5001)

# Curriculum for the Master´s programme in Medialogy, 2022, Copenhagen

## 1: Preface

Pursuant to consolidation Act 778 of August 7, 2019 on Universities (the University Act), the following is established. The programme also follows the Examination Policies and Procedures incl. the Joint Programme Regulations  for Aalborg University.

## 2: Basis in Ministerial orders

The Master’s programme is organised in accordance with the Ministry of Higher Education and Science’s  Order no. 2285 of December 1, 2021 on Full-time University Programmes (the University Programme Order) and Ministerial Order no. 2271 of December 1, 2021 on University Examinations (the Examination Order). Further reference is made to Ministerial Order no. 104 of January 24, 2021 (the Admission Order) and Ministerial Order no. 114 of February 3, 2015 (the Grading Scale Order).

## 3: Campus

The programme is offered in Copenhagen.

## 4: Faculty affiliation

The Master’s programme falls under The Technical Faculty of IT and Design, Aalborg University.

## 5: Study board affiliation

The Master’s programme falls under Study Board of Media Technology

## 6: Affiliation to corps of external examiners

The Master’s programme is associated with the external examiners corps on Civil engineering corps of external examiners

## 7: Admission requirements

**Applicants with a legal right of admission (retskrav)**

* Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Medialogy (campus Copenhagen), Aalborg University

**Applicants without legal right of admission**

* Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Engineering (Electronic Engineering), Aalborg University

Bachelor’s programmes not already mentioned, must satisfy at least 2 of the following requirements:

* programming (minimum 10 ECTS)
* technical knowledge behind media technologies (minimum 10 ECTS)
* methods within Interaction Design/User Experience Design (minimum 10 ECTS)

All applicants without a legal right of admission must prove that their English language qualifications are equivalent to level B (Danish level) in English

## 8: The programme title in Danish and English

The Master’s programme entitles the graduate to the following Danish designation: Cand.scient. i medialogi. The English designation is: Master of Science (MSc) in Medialogy

## 9: Programme specifications in ECTS credits

The Master’s programme is a 2-year, research-based, full-time study programme. The programme is set to 120 ECTS credits.

## 10: Rules concerning credit transfer (merit), including the possibility for choice of modules that are part of another programme at a university in Denmark or abroad

The Study Board can approve that passed programme elements from other educational programmes at the same level replaces programme elements within this programme (credit transfer).

Furthermore, the Study Board can, upon application, approve that parts of this programme is completed at another university or a further education institution in Denmark or abroad (pre-approval of credit transfer).

The Study Board’s decisions regarding credit transfer are based on an academic assessment.

## 11: Exemptions

The Study Board’s possibilities to grant exemption, including exemption to further examination attempts and special examination conditions, are stated in the Examination Policies and Procedures published at this website: [https://www.studyservice.aau.dk/rules](https://www.studyservice.aau.dk/rules)

## 12: Rules for examinations

The rules for examinations are stated in the Examination Policies and Procedures published at this website: [https://www.studyservice.aau.dk/rules](https://www.studyservice.aau.dk/rules)

## 13: Rules concerning written work, including the Master’s Thesis

In the assessment of all written work, regardless of the language it is written in, weight is also given to the student's formulation and spelling ability, in addition to the academic content. Orthographic and grammatical correctness as well as stylistic proficiency are taken as a basis for the evaluation of language performance. Language performance must always be included as an independent dimension of the total evaluation. However, no examination can be assessed as ‘Pass’ on the basis of good language performance alone; similarly, an examination normally cannot be assessed as ‘Fail’ on the basis of poor language performance alone.

The Study Board can grant exemption from this in special cases (e.g., dyslexia or a native language other than Danish).

The Master’s Thesis must include an English summary. If the project is written in English, the summary can be in Danish. The summary is included in the evaluation of the project as a whole.

## 14: Requirements regarding the reading of texts in a foreign language

It is assumed that the student can read academic texts and use reference works, etc., in English.

## 15: Competence profile on the diploma

The following competence profile will appear on the diploma:

A Candidatus graduate has the following competency profile:

A Candidatus graduate has competencies that have been acquired via a course of study that has taken place in a research environment.

A Candidatus graduate is qualified for employment on the labour market based on his or her academic discipline as well as for further research (PhD programmes). A Candidatus graduate has, compared to a Bachelor, developed his or her academic knowledge and independence so as to be able to apply scientific theory and method on an independent basis within both an academic and a professional context.

## 16: Competence profile of the programme

**Knowledge**

Students who complete the programme will obtain:

* knowledge and understanding of state-of-the-art media technologies
* understanding of human senses, perception and cognition in relation to media technologies

With respect to Problem-Based Learning students will be able to:

* account for the scientific foundation, and scientific problem areas
* describe the state of the art of relevant research

**Skills**

Students who complete the programme will be able to:

* analyze an application area, use case and/or user group in order to generate a requirement specification
* evaluate the  limitations and affordances of state-of-the-art media technological solutions in relation to a specific application area
* create novel media technological solutions that are optimized according to formulated metrics

With respect to Problem-Based Learning students will be able to:

* master the scientific methods and general skills associated with the problem area
* produce a project report according to norms of the area, apply correct terminology, document extensive command over relevant literature, communicate and discuss the research-based foundation, problem and results of the project orally, graphically and in writing in a coherent manner
* critically evaluate the results of the project in relation to relevant literature and established scientific methods and models, evaluate and discuss the project’s problem area in a relevant scientific context
* evaluate and discuss the project’s potential for further development

**Competences**

Students who complete the programme will be able to:

* conceive, design, implement and evaluate prototypes of digital media products targeted at specific users/use cases

With respect to Problem-Based Learning students will be able to:

* participate in, and independently carry out, technological development and research, and apply scientific methods in solving complex problems
* plan, execute and manage complex research and/or development tasks, and assume a professional responsibility for independently carrying out, potentially cross-disciplinary, collaborations
* independently assume responsibility for own scientific development

## 17: Structure and Contents of the programme

The programme is structured in modules and organised as a problem-based study. A module is a programme element or a group of programme elements, which aims to give students a set of professional skills within a fixed time frame specified in ECTS credits, and concluding with one or more examinations within specific exam periods. Examinations are defined in the curriculum. Each semester has an overall theme, which is reflected in the scope of the (mandatory) course modules and semester projects.

The programme is based on a combination of academic, problem-oriented and interdisciplinary approaches and organized based on the following work and evaluation methods that combine skills and reflection:

* lectures
* classroom instruction
* project work
* workshops
* exercises (individually and in groups)
* teacher feedback
* reflection
* portfolio work

## 18: Overview of the programme

All modules are assessed through individual grading according to the 7-point scale or Pass/Fail. All modules are assessed by external examination (external grading) or internal examination (internal grading) or by assessment by the supervisor or course-responsible only.

| Offered as: 1-professional                                                                                                       |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Module name                                                                                                                      |
| 1 Semester                                                                                                                       |
| [Adaptive Media Systems](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM1221?lang=en-GB) (MSNMEDM1221)                             |
| [Machine Learning for Media Experiences](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM1222?lang=en-GB) (MSNMEDM1222)             |
| [1st semester elective courses package](https://studieordninger.aau.dk/2024/47/5001#courseblock18669) Choose 2 courses (10 ECTS)   |
| 2 Semester                                                                                                                       |
| [Immersive Experiences](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM2221?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM2221)                              |
| [Multi-Sensory Interaction and Media Cognition](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM2222?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM2222)      |
| [2nd semester elective courses package](https://studieordninger.aau.dk/2024/47/5001#courseblock18670) Choose 2 courses (10 ECTS)   |
| 3 SemesterOption A                                                                                                               |
| [Project-Oriented Study in an External Organisation](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM3221?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM3221) |
| 3 SemesterOption B                                                                                                               |
| [DADIU Game Production](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM3222?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM3222)                              |
| 4 SemesterMaster´s Thesis                                                                                                       |
| [Master’s Thesis](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM4221?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM4221)                                   |

| 1st semester elective courses packageChoose 2 courses (10 ECTS)                                                 |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Module name                                                                                                     |
| [Real-Time Computer Graphics](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM1223?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM1223)       |
| [Mobile and Wearable Computing](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM1224?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM1224)     |
| [Narratives in Interactive Systems](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM1225?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM1225) |

| 2nd semester elective courses package Choose 2 courses (10 ECTS)                                                        |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Module name                                                                                                             |
| [Signal Processing for Interactive Systems](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM2223?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM2223) |
| [Embodied Interaction](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM2224?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM2224)                      |
| [Spatial User Interfaces](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM2225?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM2225)                   |
| [Game Research and Development](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM2226?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM2226)             |

NOTE: Elective courses will only be offered if 12 students or more register for the course during the registration period. Students will be offered other options if a chosen course is not offered.

## 19: Additional information

All students who have not participated in Aalborg University’s PBL introductory course during their Bachelor’s degree must attend the introductory course “Problem-based Learning and Project Management”. The introductory course must be approved before the student can participate in the project exam. For further information, please contact the study board.

## 20: Commencement and transitional rules

The curriculum is approved by the dean and enters into force as of September 1, 2022.

The Study Board does not offer teaching after the previous curriculum from 2020 after the summer examination 2023.

The Study Board will offer examinations after the previous curriculum, if there are students who have used examination attempts in a module without passing. The number of examination attempts follows the rules in the Examination Order.

## 21: Amendments to the curriculum and regulations
