# Curriculum for the Master's Programme in Sound and Music Computing, 2022, Copenhagen

Collapse all

## 1: Preface

Pursuant to consolidation Act 778 of August 7, 2019 on Universities (the University Act), the following is established. The programme also follows the Examination Policies and Procedures incl. the Joint Programme Regulations for Aalborg University.

## 2: Basis in Ministerial orders

The Master’s programme is organised in accordance with the Ministry of Higher Education and Science’s  Order no. 2285 of December 1, 2021 on Full-time University Programmes (the University Programme Order) and Ministerial Order no. 2271 of December 1, 2021 on University Examinations (the Examination Order). Further reference is made to Ministerial Order no. 104 of January 24, 2021 (the Admission Order) and Ministerial Order no. 114 of February 3, 2015 (the Grading Scale Order).

## 3: Campus

The programme is offered in Copenhagen.

## 4: Faculty affiliation

The Master’s programme falls under The Technical Faculty of IT and Design, Aalborg University.

## 5: Study board affiliation

The Master’s programme falls under Study Board of Media Technology

## 6: Affiliation to corps of external examiners

The Master’s programme is associated with the external examiners corps on Civil engineering corps of external examiners

## 7: Admission requirements

**Applicants with a legal right of admission (retskrav)**

Aalborg University offers no bachelor’s educations with a legal right of admission to this education.

**Applicants without legal right of admission**

* Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, Aalborg University
* Bachelor of Science in Electronic Engineering, Aalborg University
* Bachelor of Science in Software, Aalborg University
* Bachelor of Science in Engineering Psychology, Aalborg University
* Bachelor of Science in Internet Technologies and Computer Engineering, Aalborg University
* Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, Technical University of Denmark
* Bachelor of Science in Network Technology and IT, Technical University of Denmark
* Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and Technology, Technical University of Denmark
* Bachelor of Science in Software Technology, Technical University of Denmark
* Bachelor of Science in Engineering (Mechatronics), University of Southern Denmark
* Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology, Aahus University
* Bachelor of Engineering in Electronic Engineering, Aarhus University
* Bachelor of Science in Medialogy, Aalborg University
* Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Engineering (General Engineering with specialization in Informatics and Signal Processing), Aalborg University

Bachelor’s programmes not already mentioned must contain a minimum of 10 ECTS within programming or a minimum of 10 ECTS project-oriented work within music technology.

As a prerequisite for admission to the master’s programme, students must have completed a bachelor programme in technical sciences, a bachelor of engineering programme or a bachelor in natural science.

All applicants without a legal right must prove that their English language qualifications is equivalent to level B (Danish level) in English

## 8: The programme title in Danish and English

The Master’s programme entitles the graduate to the Danish designation Civilingeniør, cand.polyt. i lyd- og musikteknologi. The English designation is: Master of Science (MSc) in Engineering (Sound and Music Computing).

## 9: Programme specifications in ECTS credits

The Master’s programme is a two year, research-based, full-time study programme. The programme is set to 120 ECTS credits.

## 10: Rules concerning credit transfer (merit), including the possibility for choice of modules that are part of another programme at a university in Denmark or abroad

The Study Board can approve that passed programme elements from other educational programmes at the same level replaces programme elements within this programme (credit transfer).

Furthermore, the Study Board can, upon application, approve that parts of this programme is completed at another university or a further education institution in Denmark or abroad (pre-approval of credit transfer).

The Study Board’s decisions regarding credit transfer are based on an academic assessment.

## 11: Exemptions

The Study Board’s possibilities to grant exemption, including exemption to further examination attempts and special examination conditions, are stated in the Examination Policies and Procedures published at this website: [https://www.studyservice.aau.dk/rules](https://www.studyservice.aau.dk/rules)

## 12: Rules for examinations

The rules for examinations are stated in the Examination Policies and Procedures published at this website: [https://www.studyservice.aau.dk/rules](https://www.studyservice.aau.dk/rules)

## 13: Rules concerning written work, including the Master’s Thesis

In the assessment of all written work, regardless of the language it is written in, weight is also given to the student's formulation and spelling ability, in addition to the academic content. Orthographic and grammatical correctness as well as stylistic proficiency are taken as a basis for the evaluation of language performance. Language performance must always be included as an independent dimension of the total evaluation. However, no examination can be assessed as ‘Pass’ on the basis of good language performance alone; similarly, an examination normally cannot be assessed as ‘Fail’ on the basis of poor language performance alone.

The Study Board can grant exemption from this in special cases (e.g., dyslexia or a native language other than Danish).

The Master’s Thesis must include an English summary. If the project is written in English, the summary can be in Danish. The summary is included in the evaluation of the project as a whole.

## 14: Requirements regarding the reading of texts in a foreign language

It is assumed that the student can read academic text and use reference works, etc., in English.

## 15: Competence profile on the diploma

The following competence profile will appear on the diploma:

A Candidatus graduate has the following competency profile:

A Candidatus graduate has competencies that have been acquired via a course of study that has taken place in a research environment.

A Candidatus graduate is qualified for employment on the labour market based on his or her academic discipline as well as for further research (PhD programmes). A Candidatus graduate has, compared to a Bachelor, developed his or her academic knowledge and independence so as to be able to apply scientific theory and method on an independent basis within both an academic and a professional context.

## 16: Competence profile of the programme

The mission of the Master’s Programme in Sound and Music Computing is to train the professionals that will push forward the sound and music technologies of the new information society. By combining practical and theoretical approaches in topics such as computational modeling, audio engineering, perception, cognition, and interactive systems, the programme gives the scientific and technological background needed to start a research or professional career. This programme trains the students on the technologies for the analysis, description, synthesis, transformation and production of sound and music, and on the technologies and processes that support sound and music creation.

The graduate of the Masters programme:

**Knowledge**

* has in-depth **knowledge** and understanding of issues within the areas of sound and music technology and design.
* can **understand** and, on a scientific basis, reflect on the technical, organizational and market drivers in sound and music  technology as well as the interplay between technology, market and user issues
* can **analyze** sound and music computing’s knowledge, theory, methodologies and practice, and identify scientific issues

**Skills**

* ability to **synthesize** scientific methods, tools and general skills within the field of sound and music computing.
* ability to **evaluate** and select among relevant scientific theories, methods, tools and general skills and, on a scientific basis, advance new analyzes and solutions within the subject areas
* ability to **synthesize** research-based knowledge and discuss professional and scientific problems with both peers and non-specialists
* ability to **synthesize** knowledge in scientific writing: articles, reports, documentation, etc.
* ability to **analyze** and select among relevant theories, technologies and methods for development of sound and music technology solutions and services
* can **analyze** different technologies for optimal selection
* can **analyze** the research potential or the market, ethical and regulatory framework for application of the technologies

**Competencies**

* ability to **apply** acquired knowledge in research, innovation and entrepreneurship that can be used to explore and exploit the great potential of new media technologies with an engineering approach
* ability to **synthesize** acquired knowledge creatively and innovatively to identify and propose new opportunities and develop services/solutions, which can empower the users and assist them in solving their current and future tasks on a daily basis
* ability to **synthesize** project work and problem based learning in a global/multicultural environment
* ability to **apply** knowledge to independently initiate and implement discipline-specific and interdisciplinary cooperation and assume professional responsibility
* ability to **synthesize** knowledge and independently take responsibility for own professional development and specialization
* **apply** acquired knowledge in mediating collaborations and exchange between development- and business-related functions in organizations

## 17: Structure and Contents of the programme

The programme is structured in modules and organized as a problem-based study. A module is a programme element or a group of programme elements, which aims to give students a set of professional skills within a fixed time frame specified in ECTS credits, and concluding with one or more examinations within specific exam periods. Examinations are defined in the curriculum. Each semester has an overall theme, which is reflected in the scope of the (mandatory) course modules and semester projects.

The programme is based on a combination of academic, problem-oriented and interdisciplinary approaches and organized based on the following work and evaluation methods that combine skills and reflection:

* lectures
* classroom instruction
* project work
* workshops
* exercises (individually and in groups)
* teacher feedback
* reflection
* portfolio work

## 18: Overview of the programme

All modules are assessed through individual grading according to the 7-point scale *or* Pass/Fail. All modules are assessed by external examinatino (external grading) *or* internal examination (internal grading or by assessment by the supervisor only).

| Offered as: 1-professional                                                                                                              |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Module name                                                                                                                             |
| 1 Semester                                                                                                                              |
| [Foundations of SMC](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNSMCM1201?lang=en-GB)``(MSNSMCM1201)                                 |
| [Sound Processing](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNSMCM1202?lang=en-GB)``(MSNSMCM1202)                                   |
| [New Interfaces for Musical Expression](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNSMCM1203?lang=en-GB)``(MSNSMCM1203)              |
| [Music Perception and Cognition](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNSMCM1204?lang=en-GB)``(MSNSMCM1204)                     |
| 2 Semester                                                                                                                              |
| [Sonic Interaction Design](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNSMCM2201?lang=en-GB)``(MSNSMCM2201)                           |
| [Embodied Interaction](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM2224?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM2224)                               |
| [Sound and Music Signal Analysis](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNSMCM2203?lang=en-GB)``(MSNSMCM2203)                    |
| [Physical Models for Sound Synthesis](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNSMCM2204?lang=en-GB)``(MSNSMCM2204)                |
| 3 SemesterOption A                                                                                                                      |
| [Sound and Music Innovation](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNSMCM3221?lang=en-GB)``(MSNSMCM3221)                         |
| [Research in Sound and Music Computing](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNSMCM3202?lang=en-GB)``(MSNSMCM3202)              |
| [Machine Learning for Media Experiences](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNMEDM1222?lang=en-GB)``(MSNMEDM1222)             |
| 3 SemesterOption B                                                                                                                      |
| [Project-Oriented Study in an External Organisation](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNSMCM3205?lang=en-GB)``(MSNSMCM3205) |
| 4 Semester                                                                                                                              |
| [Master’s Thesis](https://moduler.aau.dk/course/2024-2025/MSNSMCM4201?lang=en-GB)``(MSNSMCM4201)                                   |

If the student wants to study abroad, the Study Board recommends this in the third semester. The student must apply for a preapproval of credit transfer by the Study Board of Media Technology.

NOTE: Elective courses will only be offered if 12 students or more register for the course during the registration period. Students will be offered other options if a chosen course is not offered.

## 19: Additional information

All students who have not participated in Aalborg University’s PBL introductory course during their Bachelor’s degree must attend the introductory course “Problem-based Learning and Project Management”. The introductory course must be approved before the student can participate in the project exam.  For further information, please see [www.create.aau.dk/education/](http://www.create.aau.dk/education/).

## 20: Commencement and transitional rules

The curriculum is approved by the dean and enters into force as of September 1, 2022.

The Study Board does not offer teaching after the previous curriculum from 2020 after the summer examination examination 2023.

The Study Board will offer examinations after the previous curriculum, if there are students who have used examination attempts in a module without passing. The number of examination attempts follows the rules in the Examination Order.

## 21: Amendments to the curriculum and regulations

On June 28, 2023, the vice dean has approved to rename the 3rd semester project from " *Sonic Interaction Design* " to " *Sound and Music Innovation* " valid from autumn 2023.
